("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- Hey, robber's daughter.
I know you, yes I do.
- And I know we're gonna
throw you off this earth.
- [Narrator] In all her
years, Ronja had never met
another child in the
forest, and then suddenly,
she found Birk, right
on top of the fort
across the treacherous
Hell's Gap.
He was the son of Borka, her
father's most hated rival,
and to make matters
worse, his whole family
had moved in next door.
(fire crackles)
(wind howls)
- Hey, wake up, Tjegge.
- (grumbles) Is it
my time to take over?
- Huh, ages ago.
Why were you sleeping, eh?
The whole point of guard
duty is to be on guard.
- [Tjegge] I was just
resting me eyelids.
- Also known as sleeping!
- [Tjegge] Yeah, yeah, yeah
- Oh, just get up.
(gasps)
- [Tjegge] I said
I wasn't sleeping.
- Oy, there are
people over there.
Chief, Chief (panting).
We got trouble.
Borka wants you.
He says he wants to talk to you.
He's waitin' up on the roof.
(bowl rattles)
- You do know you're going to
have to clean that up yourself.
- Borka wants to talk
to me, is that so?
How dare he send me
a message like this?
Oh sure, I'll go talk to
him, I can hardly wait.
And then he'll never
speak again (growls)!
- Are you all right?
We heard shouting.
- What happened?
- All right, eat up and gather
your strength, gentlemen.
I want to take this
bull by the horns,
and we will finally
put an end to Borka.
(uptempo music)
(all slurping)
(grunts)
- (sighs) That's the worst
part about gettin' old.
Don't get to join
in any of the fun.
No matter, too many
stairs, anyway.
- Borka's robbers don't
look so scary to me,
I mean, what are we up against?
They don't look
like much at all.
But, oh (sucks in breath).
(majestic music)
So that's Borka.
(giggles)
(gasping and grunting)
That dog.
- Good morning, Mattis.
Thank you very much for
coming up here so quickly.
Well, and a good morning
to you, too, Borka.
I would have come here sooner,
but I had something to do first.
I was composing a poem called
Lament for a Dead Borka.
Maybe I will read it out
to your poor widow Undis
after we have thrown you
and your lamentable crew
into the abyss (laughs).
She might at least get a bit
of comfort from the poem.
(Ronja and Mattis' men laugh)
- Oh, that is classic.
- Yeah, but would
Undis ever read a poem?
- [Borka's Man] True,
Borka's wife wouldn't have
such a fancy little hobby.
- I'll give 'em a poem.
What, I told you, they simply
won't listen to reason.
We're wasting our time
here with these animals.
Are you even listening to me?
- It seems you're right.
Hey, Mattis.
- Hm?
- Before you worry about us,
you should be thinking more
about comforting Lovis.
- Why?
- Lovis has the worst deal.
She'll have to put up with you
and your big stupid
mouth forever.
(Borka and his men laugh)
(scoffs softly)
- We should probably
all just leave
and let them two go at it.
- Now you listen to me, Mattis.
We couldn't stay in Borka's
Woods for any longer.
The governor's
soldiers are there
swarming around like flies.
I had to take my wife
and my child and my men
and find a new safe
home for them all.
- You miserable
thief, how dare you
come and live here
without asking me.
You are utterly shameless, huh?
- So you accuse me of
being a thief, then?
Well, that's very rich.
You, all your robber life,
you have taken everything
you've ever wanted
without asking.
- Huh?
Have you taken things
without asking?
(grunts nervously)
- Well, it's complicated,
we'll talk later.
Anyway, how on Earth
did you get in here?
- Why, what's it to you?
- I'd like to know
so I can throw
you sneaky little thieves
out the way you came in.
- You won't be able
to throw us out.
You want to know how we got in?
See my boy here, Birk Borkason?
He will be a robber
chief, just like me.
Oh yes, he's going
places in this world.
Mostly, up.
(uptempo music)
(gasps)
(whistles)
Right, you bobs, let's go.
(all shout in unison)
(wind whistles)
So now you see?
(growls)
(snickers)
(growls softly)
- You are lying,
there is no such entrance
on the north side.
- You've lived here
your whole life
but you'd still get lost,
or you remember nothing.
We were even close friends, or
did you forget that as well?
- Huh?
- When we were kids,
where was the pigsty, eh?
- The pigsty?
Uh (gasps).
- [Borka] Way back
then, I hadn't realized
that you and I were
in different clans.
- [Mattis] I didn't
know, either.
I used to invite
you to our castle.
- [Borka] To think I was
actually friends with you.
(door squeaks softly)
- Hey, there's a small one.
He went that way.
- He's getting away!
- Where did it go?
(gasps)
- Father?
(Borka whimpers)
- Ah.
- So your father took me
outside and he beat me.
He showed me absolutely
no mercy that day.
- Of course, if he
stumbled across any of you
sly Borka foxes he
showed you no mercy.
My father was a great man who
taught me all I know today.
- Now you listen to
me, my dear old friend.
Your so-called great
man of a father
taught me a very
valuable lesson.
That you will be
my enemy always.
- In that case, you
got two choices.
Poor Undis can read my
poem of your sad demise,
or, if you can't handle a fight,
you can get out of
here straight away!
One or the other!
- (scoffs) Neither
is gonna happen.
This is Borka's Keep,
we've made a home here,
and we have no
intention of leaving,
("leaving" echoes)
- (growling) Ready, then?
- [Together] Ready!
(Mattis' men growl)
(Borka's men growl)
- Borka, you must see that you
can't fight them way up here.
- Why not?
- What do you really
think's gonna happen?
You'll all fall
down into that pit.
- You really want to
do this right now?
- Lovis, what choice do I have?
- Well, you could pick
a better place and time.
- And I for one don't
want to have to clean up
after all of this.
(Borka grumbles)
(grumbles)
- Listen, I'm in no
mood for this today.
You may go.
You're a foolish, wild bull,
but this fort is
mine, and one day,
I'll throw you over the edge!
- I look forward to
that, but if I am a bull,
then you'd better watch out
for my sharp bull horns,
as I will use them on you,
and drag you down there with me.
(all laugh)
(laughs maniacally)
(rooster crows)
- Hey, Father?
Father, what did Borka mean
you take without asking?
Hm?
Hm.
Hmpf.
- And I suppose that wild bull
that you grabbed
by the horns today,
made a crashing noise
(howls comically),
something like that?
Hey (laughing)?
I imagine you could hear the
noise rumbling everywhere, huh?
- Eat your porridge.
That is, if you
can even chew it.
You don't know, so please,
don't say one more word
about it, all right, old man?
(old man chortles)
(sighs)
(birds caw)
(grunts angrily)
(birds squawk)
(sighs)
(idyllic music)
(shouts)
(laughs)
- It's just like
swimming in ice.
(shivers)
Times like these, you've gotta
move around a lot to keep warm.
(laughs triumphantly)
- [Birk] Hey, robber's daughter.
(growls)
(chuckles)
- [Narrator] Ronja looked
up at Birk and thought,
I can no longer live in
peace, not in my own fort,
and not even in my
own beautiful forest.
Her anger welled up inside.
Next time, on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
"Song in the Mist".
Don't miss it.
("Call of Spring")